README.md, before:

## Host Secret Sync Plygin

This plugin syncs secrets with the correct annotation from the host cluster into
the vcluster. It is based on
https://github.com/loft-sh/vcluster-sdk/tree/v0.3.0/examples/pull-secret-sync

For more information how to develop plugins in vcluster and a complete walk
through, please refer to the [official vcluster docs](https://www.vcluster.com/docs/plugins/overview).

### Using the Plugin

To use the plugin, create a new vcluster with the `plugin.yaml`:

```
# Use public plugin.yaml
vcluster create my-vcluster -n my-vcluster -f https://github.com/flanksource/vcluster-sync-host-secrets/releases/download/v0.1.3/plugin.yaml
```

This will create a new vcluster with the plugin installed. After that, wait for vcluster to start up and check:

```
# Create a config map in the virtual cluster
kubectl create secret generic mysecret -n my-vcluster --from-literal=special.how=very --from-literal=special.type=charm

# Check if the configmap was synced to the host cluster
vcluster connect my-vcluster -n my-vcluster -- kubectl get secrets
```

### Building the Plugin
To just build the plugin image and push it to the registry, run:
```
# Build
docker build . -t flanksource/vcluster-sync-host-secrets:0.0.1

# Push
docker push flanksource/vcluster-sync-host-secrets:0.0.1
```

Then exchange the image in the `plugin.yaml`.

## Development

General vcluster plugin project structure:
```
.
├── go.mod              # Go module definition
├── go.sum
├── devspace.yaml       # Development environment definition
├── devspace_start.sh   # Development entrypoint script
├── Dockerfile          # Production Dockerfile
├── Dockerfile.dev      # Development Dockerfile
├── main.go             # Go Entrypoint
├── plugin.yaml         # Plugin Helm Values
├── syncers/            # Plugin Syncers
└── constants/          # Plugin constants configuration
```

Before starting to develop, make sure you have installed the following tools on
your computer:
- [docker](https://docs.docker.com/)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) with a valid kube context
  configured
- [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/), which is used to deploy vcluster
  and the plugin
- [vcluster CLI](https://www.vcluster.com/docs/getting-started/setup) v0.6.0 or
  higher
- [DevSpace](https://devspace.sh/cli/docs/quickstart), which is used to spin up
  a development environment
- [Go](https://go.dev/dl/) programming language build tools

If you want to develop within a remote Kubernetes cluster (as opposed to
docker-desktop or minikube), make sure to exchange `PLUGIN_IMAGE` in the
`devspace.yaml` with a valid registry path you can push to.

After successfully setting up the tools, start the development environment with:
```
devspace dev -n vcluster
```

After a while a terminal should show up with additional instructions. Enter the
following command to start the plugin:
```
go run -mod vendor main.go
```

The output should look something like this:
```
I0124 11:20:14.702799    4185 logr.go:249] plugin: Try creating context...
I0124 11:20:14.730044    4185 logr.go:249] plugin: Waiting for vcluster to become leader...
I0124 11:20:14.731097    4185 logr.go:249] plugin: Starting syncers...
[...]
I0124 11:20:15.957331    4185 logr.go:249] plugin: Successfully started plugin.
```

You can now change a file locally in your IDE and then restart the command in
the terminal to apply the changes to the plugin.

Delete the development environment with:
```
devspace purge -n vcluster
```

### Unit tests
Example unit tests can be executed with:
```
go test ./...
```

The source code of the example tests can be found in the
`syncers/secrets_test.go` file.
It is using the [vcluster-sdk/syncer/testing](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/loft-sh/vcluster-sdk/syncer/testing)
package for easier testing of the syncers.

Commit message:

docs: add annotation required for sync and plugin customization instructions
Fixes: #5

README.md, after:

## Host Secret Sync Plygin

This plugin syncs secrets with the correct annotation from the host cluster into
the vcluster. It is based on
https://github.com/loft-sh/vcluster-sdk/tree/v0.3.0/examples/pull-secret-sync

For more information how to develop plugins in vcluster and a complete walk
through, please refer to the [official vcluster docs](https://www.vcluster.com/docs/plugins/overview).

### Using the Plugin

To use the plugin, create a new vcluster with the `plugin.yaml`:

```
# Use public plugin.yaml
vcluster create my-vcluster -n my-vcluster -f https://github.com/flanksource/vcluster-sync-host-secrets/releases/download/v0.1.3/plugin.yaml
```

This will create a new vcluster with the plugin installed. After that, wait for
vcluster to start up and create a secret in the host cluster:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: mysecret
  namespace: my-vcluster
  annotations:
    com.flanksource/vcluster-sync: "true"
data:
  special.how: dmVyeQ==
  special.type: Y2hhcm0=
```

```
# Check if the secret was synced to the host cluster
vcluster connect my-vcluster -n my-vcluster -- kubectl get secrets
```

The secret is deployed into the VCluster's default namespace, this can be
changed via the `DESTINATION_NAMESPACE` environment variable:

```yaml
plugin:
  sync-host-secrets:
    env:
      - name: DESTINATION_NAMESPACE
        value: dest-ns-inside-vcluster
```

### Building the Plugin
To just build the plugin image and push it to the registry, run:
```
# Build
docker build . -t flanksource/vcluster-sync-host-secrets:0.0.1

# Push
docker push flanksource/vcluster-sync-host-secrets:0.0.1
```

Then exchange the image in the `plugin.yaml`.

## Development

General vcluster plugin project structure:
```
.
├── go.mod              # Go module definition
├── go.sum
├── devspace.yaml       # Development environment definition
├── devspace_start.sh   # Development entrypoint script
├── Dockerfile          # Production Dockerfile
├── Dockerfile.dev      # Development Dockerfile
├── main.go             # Go Entrypoint
├── plugin.yaml         # Plugin Helm Values
├── syncers/            # Plugin Syncers
└── constants/          # Plugin constants configuration
```

Before starting to develop, make sure you have installed the following tools on
your computer:
- [docker](https://docs.docker.com/)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) with a valid kube context
  configured
- [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/), which is used to deploy vcluster
  and the plugin
- [vcluster CLI](https://www.vcluster.com/docs/getting-started/setup) v0.6.0 or
  higher
- [DevSpace](https://devspace.sh/cli/docs/quickstart), which is used to spin up
  a development environment
- [Go](https://go.dev/dl/) programming language build tools

If you want to develop within a remote Kubernetes cluster (as opposed to
docker-desktop or minikube), make sure to exchange `PLUGIN_IMAGE` in the
`devspace.yaml` with a valid registry path you can push to.

After successfully setting up the tools, start the development environment with:
```
devspace dev -n vcluster
```

After a while a terminal should show up with additional instructions. Enter the
following command to start the plugin:
```
go run -mod vendor main.go
```

The output should look something like this:
```
I0124 11:20:14.702799    4185 logr.go:249] plugin: Try creating context...
I0124 11:20:14.730044    4185 logr.go:249] plugin: Waiting for vcluster to become leader...
I0124 11:20:14.731097    4185 logr.go:249] plugin: Starting syncers...
[...]
I0124 11:20:15.957331    4185 logr.go:249] plugin: Successfully started plugin.
```

You can now change a file locally in your IDE and then restart the command in
the terminal to apply the changes to the plugin.

Delete the development environment with:
```
devspace purge -n vcluster
```

### Unit tests
Example unit tests can be executed with:
```
go test ./...
```

The source code of the example tests can be found in the
`syncers/secrets_test.go` file.
It is using the [vcluster-sdk/syncer/testing](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/loft-sh/vcluster-sdk/syncer/testing)
package for easier testing of the syncers.
